Source URL: https://www.whed.net/detail_institution.php?Jzo2MF0sU2BRLDBgYApgCg==
Permanent URL: https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-003011

College of Engineering Trivandrum
College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram (CET)
IAU-003011
https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-003011
India
General Information
Officers
Divisions
Degrees
Academic Periodicals
Student & Staff Numbers
General Information
Address
Street:
Near Chavadimukku, Sreekaryam.
City:
Thiruvananthapuram
Province:
Kerala
Post Code:
695 016
WWW:
https://www.cet.ac.in
Institution Funding
Public
History
College of Engineering Trivandrum was established in 1939 as the first Engineering College in the then Travancore State, Kerala, India. The College had an initial intake of 21 students each for Degree and Diploma courses in Civil, Mechanical and Electrical branches. With the establishment of the Directorate of Technical Education in the late fifties, the college administration came under the control of the Government of Kerala. The college was shifted to the present sprawling 125 acres in 1960.
The institution has eight departments offering 8 undergraduate, 31 postgraduate and doctoral programmes under the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. The College has around 3500 students, 285 teaching staff and 290 non-teaching staff. Evening courses are also offered by the College for the benefit of employees of public and private sector units around Trivandrum.
Right from inception, the college has maintained its eminence as a leading Engineering College in India primarily on the basis of the quality of its graduates.
Tuition Fees
National:
6300 (INR)
Language(s)
English
Accrediting Agency
All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE); National Board of Accreditation (NBA)
Religious Affiliation
None
Student Body
co-ed
Officers
Head : J.S. Savier
Job title:
Principal
Senior Administrative Officer : A. Lekshmi
Job title:
Dean Postgraduate Studies
Senior Administrative Officer : Sumesh Divakaran
Job title:
Dean of Research
Senior Administrative Officer : V.R. Jisha
Job title:
Dean of Undergraduate Studies
Divisions
Department/Division : Architecture
Fields of study:
Architecture
Department/Division : Civil Engineering
Fields of study:
Civil Engineering
Department/Division : Computer Science and Engineering
Fields of study:
Computer Engineering, Computer Science
Department/Division : Electrical Engineering
Fields of study:
Electrical Engineering
Department/Division : Electronics and Communications Engineering
Fields of study:
Electronic Engineering, Telecommunications Engineering
Department/Division : Mechanical Engineering
Fields of study:
Industrial Engineering, Mechanical Engineering
Degrees
Bachelor's Degree
Fields of study:
Architecture and Planning, Civil Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering
Master's Degree
Fields of study:
Architecture, Architecture and Planning, Civil Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering
Doctor of Philosophy
Fields of study:
Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering, Architecture and Planning, Biomedical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Energy Engineering, Engineering Management, Environmental Engineering, Industrial Engineering
Student & Staff Numbers
Staff
Statistics Year:
2022-2023
Full Time Total:
285
Students
Statistics Year:
2022-2023
Total:
3500
Students with Disabilities:
15
Updated on 05-10-2023
International Association of Universities (IAU)