Source URL: https://www.whed.net/detail_institution.php?KDo2MF0sMyRWLSNAYApgCg==
Permanent URL: https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-011648

Middle East University
Jame'at Al Sharq Al Awsat (MEU)
IAU-011648
https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-011648
Jordan
General Information
Officers
Divisions
Degrees
Academic Periodicals
Student & Staff Numbers
General Information
Address
Street:
Airport Road
City:
Amman
Post Code:
11831
WWW:
https://www.meu.edu.jo
Institution Funding
Private
History
Created in 2005 with Master’s programs. At the beginning of the academic year 2008/2009, the university started its second phase, at undergraduate level
Admission Requirements
Bachelor's Criteria:
1. Jordanian secondary school certificate or its equivalent. 2. Meet the minimum required grade average. 3. Jordanian students who wish to transfer from community colleges are admitted provided their score average in the comprehensive examination is 68% or above and their major is congruent with the field of study they wish to be admitted to. This should be in line with the compatible majors list prepared and approved by the Examination and Measurement Authority. 4. Special needs students with community college degrees who have scored 65% are accepted provided they present a medical report from the Ministry of Health. 5. Jordanian students with community college degrees obtained abroad, provided that their diplomas are accredited and they pass the comprehensive exam prepared and approved by the Authority. 6. Students who wish to transfer from other universities which do not follow distance learning systems, In this case, the student is credited for no more than 50% of his / her overall study.
1. General Secondary Education Certificate holders: • General Secondary Education transcript in Arabic and English or, a certified copy.
Photocopy of identity card. • Military Service Record. • Two photos. 2. Community college diploma holders: • All documents required for General Secondary Education Certificate holders. • Community college diploma certified by the Ministry of Higher Educationand Research. 3. Students transferring from other universities. In addition to A & B above, the following are required: • Good conduct certificate issued by the student’s ex-university. • Course description. • Transcripts certified by the Ministry of Higher Education and Research. 4. Foreign students and holders of Laissez Passez: • All of the documents submitted by Jordanian nationals, excluding the military service record. • Photocopy of passport. 5. Foreign Secondary School Certificate Holders: • The equivalency of the Certificate certified by the Jordanian Ministry of Higher Education and Research. • An official Transcript or a certified copy
Master’s Program:
Master’s Program Consists of Two Tracks:
1. Comprehensive Exam Track: The student is expected to pass 33 credit hours of which 24 are required and 9 are electives. 2. Thesis Track: The student must successfully pass 33 credit hours, consisting of 9 hours for the thesis in addition to 15 required hours and 9 credit hours of elective courses.
C. Admission Terms For Master’s Candidates:
1. The required grade rating of “good” or above, in the event a BA program Students with GPA’s rating less than good they will be accepted in a Masters program, provided that they meet the rules and conditions given by the Ministry of Higher Education and Research’s committee in their meeting (no. 2) on 6/1/2010. 2. Students should be enrolled in regular not distance learning Institutions. 3. English Language Certification: There are different options students can obtain the certification with; either the National Examination (Refer to our registrar for more info about certified centers), or a score of 70 in the iBT TOEFL, score 6.5 or above in IELTS exam. Students must submit their required examination scores prior to admission and enrollment.
D. Documents for Admission to the Masters Program:
The application should be accompanied by the following documents:
1. Copy of the Bachelor’s degree certified by the Ministry of Higher Education and Research. 2.Transcript certified by the Ministry of Higher Education and Research. 3.Photocopy of identity card. 4.Photocopy of the applicant’s passport. 5.Bachelor’s equivalent certified by the Ministry of Higher Education and Research. 6.Two photos. 7.Mentioned above English Language certification Passing results
Tuition Fees
National:
Bachelors: Average of 14,000 in 4 years (132 credit hours program)
Masters: Average of 10,000 in 2 years (33 credit hours program) (JOD)
International:
Bachelors : Average of 20,000 in 4 years (132 credit hours program)
Masters: Average of 14,000 in 2 years (33 credit hours program) (USD)
Language(s)
Arabic;English
Accrediting Agency
Jordan Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
Religious Affiliation
None
Student Body
co-ed
Officers
Head : Salam Al-Mahadin
Job title:
President
Senior Administrative Officer : Anees Mansour
Job title:
Vice President for Administrative and Legal Affairs
International Relations Officer : Sara Nasereddin
Job title:
Manager, International Relations
Divisions
Faculty : Architecture and Design
Fields of study:
Architecture, Graphic Design, Performing Arts
Faculty : Arts and Sciences
Fields of study:
Arabic, English, Literature, Political Sciences
Faculty : Business
Fields of study:
Accountancy, Business Administration, E-Business/Commerce, Finance, Marketing, Tourism
Faculty : Educational Sciences
Fields of study:
Curriculum, Education, Educational Administration, Educational Technology, Special Education
Faculty : Engineering
Fields of study:
Civil Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Engineering, Environmental Engineering
Faculty : Information Technology
Fields of study:
Computer Science, Information Technology
Faculty : Law
Fields of study:
Law, Private Law, Public Law
Faculty : Media
Fields of study:
Journalism, Media Studies, Radio and Television Broadcasting
Faculty : Pharmacy
Fields of study:
Pharmacy
Degrees
Bachelor's Degree
Fields of study:
Arabic, Architecture, Artificial Intelligence, Arts and Humanities, Banking, Business Administration, Civil Engineering, Computer Science, Curriculum, E-Business/Commerce, Educational Technology, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Energy Engineering, English, Finance, Graphic Design, Interior Design, Journalism, Law, Literature, Marketing, Mass Communication, Media Studies, Pharmacy, Radio and Television Broadcasting, Special Education, Structural Architecture, Teacher Training, Tourism, Visual Arts
Master's Degree
Fields of study:
Accountancy, Arabic, Arts and Humanities, Business Administration, Computer Education, Curriculum, E-Business/Commerce, Educational Administration, Educational Sciences, English, Finance, Graphic Design, Information Technology, Journalism, Linguistics, Literature, Marketing, Mass Communication, Media Studies, Pedagogy, Political Sciences, Private Law, Public Law, Radio and Television Broadcasting, Teacher Training, Technology Education, Translation and Interpretation
Note
Also the British Joint Pharmacy Programme (MPharm) with the University of Strathclyde, UK; Master in Cloud Computing Services and Security (in partnership with Mutah University, Jordan
Updated on 01-10-2020
International Association of Universities (IAU)