Source URL: https://www.whed.net/detail_institution.php?KDo2MF0sMzhQLEMwYApgCg==
Permanent URL: https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-016024

Swiss School of Management
(SSM)
IAU-016024
https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-016024
United States of America - Outside USA
General Information
Officers
Divisions
Degrees
Academic Periodicals
Student & Staff Numbers
General Information
Address
Street:
Quai du Seujet 10
City:
Geneva
Province:
Switzerland
Post Code:
1201
WWW:
https://ssm.swiss
Other Sites
Learning Centers are in Rome (Italy), Barcelona (Spain), Brescia (Italy), Malta, Dallas (USA), Dubai (UAE), Bahrain, Cairo (Egypt)
Institution Funding
Private
History
The roots of the Swiss School of Management go back to 1981, as the Newport Graduate School was founded in the Canton of St. Gallen in Switzerland. In the year 2000 the school changed to its current name, Swiss School of Management. In order to facilitate international students to freely move in search for jobs to other European countries, the school decided to move its campus to Rome, Italy. Meanwhile, SSM has reopened its headquarter in the beautiful city of Bellinzona back in Switzerland. The high demand of students coming from other countries, who couldn't afford the very expensive living costs and tuition fees in Switzerland, motivated the school to open new learning centers in Dubai, Bahrian, Brescia and Cairo. Tuday the school counts over 5,000 students from all over the world.
Academic Year
SSM has a continous open enrollment at the beginning of each month.
Admission Requirements
Bachelor of Business Administration: All candidates must have a sound command of the English language, both spoken and written. Minimum English proficiency level of 86 points on TOEFL or 7 bands on IELTS for all non-mother tongue applicants. Students with no TOEFL or IELTS certification can provide results from a language school or complete an English evaluation test from a local provider.
Master of Business Administration: All candidates must hold a Bachelor Degree from a reputable university.
Doctor of Business Administration: All candidates must hold minimum a Bachelor and Master Degree from a reputabel univeristy.
Language(s)
English
Accrediting Agency
Distance Education Accrediting Commission (USA); Malta Further & Higher Education Authority (Malta); International Accreditation Commission for Business Education (USA); EduQua (Switzerland)
Officers
Head : Massimiliano Bracalé
Job title:
President
Senior Administrative Officer : Serena Magnanti
Job title:
Vice President
Divisions
Course/Programme : Business Administration
Fields of study:
Entrepreneurship, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing
Degrees
Bachelor's Degree
Fields of study:
Business Administration
Master's Degree
Fields of study:
Business Administration
Doctor's Degrees (Professional Practice)
Fields of study:
Business Administration
Doctor's Degree (Research/Scholarship)
Fields of study:
Business Administration
Updated on 14-10-2025
International Association of Universities (IAU)