Source URL: https://www.whed.net/detail_institution.php?KDo2MF0sQ2BQLEMsYApgCg==
Permanent URL: https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-020023

University of Arusha
(UOA)
IAU-020023
https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-020023
Tanzania
General Information
Officers
Divisions
Degrees
Academic Periodicals
Student & Staff Numbers
General Information
Address
Street:
P.O. Box 7
Usa-River
City:
Arusha
WWW:
https://uoa.ac.tz
Institution Funding
Private
History
Founded 1975 in Ikizu as consolidated ministerial training institution combining the Adventist School of Health Evangelism (ASHE) at Heri Hospital in Kigoma and the Ministerial Course at Ikizu. It was later transferred to the Usa River site and named Arusha Adventist Seminary (AAS). Upgraded into Tanzania Adventist Seminary and College (TASC) 1978. Changed name to Tanzania Adventist College (TAC) 1992. Affiliated to Griggs University (USA) 1996. Affiliation shifted to the University of Eastern Africa, Baraton (UEAB) in Kenya as of 1998. Acquired current title 2003. Acquired current status 2006
Admission Requirements
Bachelor of Education or Bachelor of Business Administration programmes: A-level with quality points of 4.5, or Equivalent qualification with an average of B or second class. Bachelor of Business Administration course demands a credit (C ) pass in Mathematics in O-level or Subsidiary (S) in A-level. Applicants with less than B average or second class must show proof of at least two years working experience to qualify for matriculation examination. For Bachelor's degree in Theology, Five credits (C ) or above passes in O-level are required. A token is given to those with 3 credits plus the certification of Mature Age Entrance Examination from the University of Eastern Africa Baraton. For a Diploma in Nursing, credits in Sciences and Mathematics in O-level. For a Diploma in Secretarial science, three credits, one of which should be in English Language. For a Certificate in Secretarial science, Pass in O-level examination is required
Language(s)
English
Accrediting Agency
Tanzania Commission for Universities (TCU); the Adventist Accreditation Agency (AAA)
Religious Affiliation
Christian
Student Body
co-ed
Officers
Head : Patrick Manu
Job title:
Vice-Chancellor
Senior Administrative Officer : Pearson Mnkeni
Job title:
Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Planning Administration and Finance
Senior Administrative Officer : Wetengere Kitojo
Job title:
Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Academic Affairs
Divisions
Department/Division : Business
Fields of study:
Accountancy, Business Administration, Business and Commerce, Economics, Education, French, Information Sciences, Management, Marketing, Mathematics, Sales Techniques, Statistics
School : Education
Fields of study:
Accountancy, African Languages, Bible, Business Education, Curriculum, Education, Educational Administration, Educational Psychology, English, Foreign Languages Education, Geography (Human), History, History of Religion, Humanities and Social Science Education, Management, Native Language Education, Pastoral Studies, Religion, Religious Education
School : Theology
Fields of study:
Religious Studies, Theology
Degrees
Certificate
Fields of study:
Theology
Diploma
Fields of study:
Theology
Bachelor's Degree
Fields of study:
Accountancy, Arts and Humanities, Business Administration, Education, English, Foreign Languages Education, Geography (Human), Humanities and Social Science Education, Native Language Education, Religious Studies, Swahili, Theology
Postgraduate Diploma
Fields of study:
Education
Note
Also Short Courses and Training Programmes
Academic Periodicals
Periodicals
University of Arusha Academic Journal (UoAAJ)
Updated on 05-03-2025
International Association of Universities (IAU)