Source URL: https://www.whed.net/detail_institution.php?KDo2MF0sM0RZLCNgYApgCg==
Permanent URL: https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-019900

Epoka University
Universiteti Epoka
IAU-019900
https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-019900
Albania
General Information
Officers
Divisions
Degrees
Academic Periodicals
Student & Staff Numbers
General Information
Address
Street:
Rr. Tiranë-Rinas, Km 12
City:
Vlora
Post Code:
1032
WWW:
https://www.epoka.edu.al
Institution Funding
Private-for-profit
History
Founded as an institute of higher education in 2008. EPOKA University is an international higher education institution located on a smart campus between the international connections and trading crossroads of Durres Port and Rinas Airport in Tirana. The University commenced academic activities during the 2007-2008 academic year in compliance with the provisions of the Albanian higher education legislation.
In 2012, based on the Decision of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania No. 553, dated 22.08.2012, the legal status of the institution changed from “Institution of Higher Education (“Shkollë e Lartë” in Albanian) to “University”
Academic Year
November to October
Admission Requirements
Bachelor and Integrated Second Cycle Study Programs offered in English:
1. Students holding a high school degree or equivalent degree;
2. a. A minimum high school CGPA of 7.00 out of 10.00 or equivalent CGPA; b. For Bachelor in Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electronics and Digital Communication the minimum high school grade average received at the “Mathematics” and "Physics" subjects should be 7.00 out of 10.00 or equivalent to it.
3. English proficiency level B1 according to CEFR in one of the following exams:
a. Cambridge
b. IELTS
c. TOEFL Internet-based Test (iBT)
d. TOEFL Paper-based Test (ITP)
e. TOEIC
f. GESE
g. APTIS (4 skills), which is the English Proficiency Exam of Epoka University and is conducted by British Council Albania at the premises of the University.
In cases when the Student has completed his studies in a high school where teaching is conducted entirely in English, he is exempted from the obligation to submit this document.
-Bachelor study programs offered in Albanian
1. Students holding a high school degree or equivalent degree;
2. A minimum high school CGPA of 6.50 out of 10.00 or equivalent CGPA.
-Master of Science study programs
1. Students holding a Bachelor degree or equivalent degree in disciplines determined by the Scientific Committe of the respective Department;
2. A minimum CGPA of 2.50 out of 4.00 for the students who have completed their Bachelor study programs at Epoka University or 7.00 out of 10.00 or equivalent CGPA for students who have completed Bachelor study programs in other Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) ;
3. Students who have completed their Bachelor study programs at Epoka University with a CGPA between 2.00 - 2.49 out of 4.00 or students who have completed their Bachelor study programs at other HEIs with a CGPA between 6.00 - 6.99 out of 10.00 shall be able to enroll in the Master of Science study program subject to the succesful passing of the Scientific Interview with the Scientific Committe of the respective Departement;
4. English proficiency level B2 according to CEFR in one of the following exams:
a. Cambridge
b. IELTS
c. TOEFL Internet-based Test (iBT)
d. TOEFL Paper-based Test (ITP)
e. TOEIC
f. GESE
g. APTIS (4 skills), which is the English Proficiency Exam of Epoka University and is conducted by British Council Albania at the premises of the University.
In cases when the Student has completed his first cycle (Bachelor) studies in a study program where teaching is conducted entirely in English, he is exempted from the obligation to submit this document.
- PhD study program
The persons who are eligible for admission to the PhD program should:
1. have obtained a Master of Science/Master of Arts, integrated second cycle studies or any other equivalent diploma in the field of the Doctorate (PhD) program or in a close field previously defined in the requirements established by the respective of the Scientific Committee;
2. have a CGPA of at least 2.70 out of 4.00 or 8 out of 10 from the Master of Science/Master of Arts, integrated second cycle studies or any other equivalent diploma in the field of the Doctorate (PhD) program or in a close field previously defined in the requirements established by the respective Scientific Committee or an equivalent CGPA;
3. Applicants must demonstrate that they have reached the minimum acceptable level of proficiency in use of the English language, having obtained the equivalent score for C1 level from the internationally recognized English Language Exams as stipulated in the Directive of the Minister of Education and Sports No. 52, dated 03.12.2015 "On defining the foreign language levels and international tests, on the admission to second and third cycle study programs, in Higher Education Institutions" which are as follows:Cambridge
a. IELTS
b. TOEFL Internet-based Test (iBT)
c. TOEFL Paper-based Test (ITP)
d. TOEIC
e. GESE
f. APTIS (4 skills), which is the English Proficiency Exam of Epoka University and is conducted by British Council Albania at the premises of the University.
4. Applicant must be employed in a Higher Education Institution or in a Research Center.
Language(s)
English;Albanian
Accrediting Agency
Agjencia e Sigurimit të Cilësisë në Arsimin e Lartë (Quality Assurance Agency in Higher Education (ASCAL))
Student Body
co-ed
Officers
Head : Ahmet Öztaş
Job title:
Rector
International Relations Officer : Alba Gërdeci
Job title:
Head, International Relations
Divisions
Faculty : Architecture and Engineering
Fields of study:
Architecture, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Engineering Management, Software Engineering, Telecommunications Engineering
Faculty : Economics and Administrative Sciences
Fields of study:
Banking, Business Administration, Economics, Finance
Faculty : Law and Social Sciences
Fields of study:
European Studies, International Relations and Diplomacy, Law, Political Sciences
Degrees
Diplomë Bachelor
Fields of study:
Banking, Business Administration, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Economics, Marketing, Political Sciences, Software Engineering, Telecommunications Engineering
Master Profesional
Fields of study:
Banking, Business Administration, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Fire Science, Political Sciences
Master i Shkencave, Cikel i Integruar
Fields of study:
Architecture, Law
Master i Shkencave/Master i Arteve të Bukura
Fields of study:
Architecture, Banking, Business Administration, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Economics, Engineering Management, Political Sciences, Telecommunications Engineering
Doktor
Fields of study:
Architecture, Business Administration, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Economics, Political Sciences
Note
Bachelor in Banking and Finance is offered in Albanian and English. Integrated 5-year Law degree is in English and Albanian. All other degrees are taught in English
Student & Staff Numbers
Staff
Statistics Year:
2020-2021
Full Time Total:
81
Staff with Doctorate
Full Time Total:
49
Students
Statistics Year:
2020-2021
Male:
1228
Female:
1340
Total:
2568
Foreign Total:
59
Updated on 03-02-2021
International Association of Universities (IAU)