Source URL: https://www.whed.net/detail_institution.php?KDo2MF0sM0BTLjNAYApgCg==
Permanent URL: https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-018398

Technological University of the Mixteca
Universidad Tecnológica de la Mixteca (UTM)
IAU-018398
https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-018398
Mexico
General Information
Officers
Divisions
Degrees
Academic Periodicals
Student & Staff Numbers
General Information
Address
Street:
Km. 2.5 Carretera a Acatlima
Ciudad Universitaria
City:
Huajuapan de León
Province:
Oaxaca
Post Code:
69000
WWW:
https://www.utm.mx
Other Sites
Also 9 research Institutes. Division of postgraduate studies. Technology Center (Kadasoftware). 4 Advanced laboratories. Language Center. Center for Strategic Business Studies
Institution Funding
Public
History
Created in 1990, the Technological University of the Mixteca is part of the Oaxaca State University System (SUNEO). SUNEO was created to serve as a cultural instrument for the transformation of the social environment. This can be achieved through high – performance universities, which create a comparative advantage for the State of Oaxaca and make it attractive for productive investments. It is aimed at contributing to the decentralization of high quality higher education services in the following substantive functions: Teaching, Research, Cultural Diffusion and Development promotion.
The SUNEO Project started in 1988 and at the beginning of 1990, the activities began with the Technological University of the Mixteca (UTM). In 1992, the University of the Sea (UMAR) was created and the project was extended to a new socio- cultural and environmental reference point in Oaxaca: the Oaxacan coast, with the aim of promoting the culture of the sea. During the first decade of the 21st century, the project was extended throughout the state, expanding the educational offerings in the field of science and technology and developing scientific and technological research and creating many services for the people of Oaxaca.
SUNEO is made up of ten universities on eighteen campus distributed throughout all regions of Oaxaca. The campus are scalable to meet demand: Technological University of the Mixteca (UTM-Huajuapan), University of the Sea (UMAR-Puerto Escondido, Puerto Ángel, Huatulco and Oaxaca campus), University of the Isthmus (UNISTMO-Tehuantepec, Ixtepec, Juchitán Campus), University of Papaloapan (UNPA- Tuxtepec and Loma Bonita Campus), University of Sierra Sur (UNSIS-Miahuatlán), University of Sierra Juárez (UNSIJ-Ixtlán), University of La Cañada (UNCA-Teotitlán de Flores Magón), NovaUniversitas (Ocotlán, San Jacinto and Juxtlahuaca Campus), University of the Coast (UNCOS- Pinotepa Nacional) and University of Chalcatongo (UNICHA-Chalcatongo de Hidalgo). Additional campus are under construction.
At this time, SUNEO has around 1,100 full-time professors. More than 10 thousand students. 30 Research Institutes, 183 Laboratories and 29 Workshops. The SUNEO offers 87 Bachelor’s degrees, most of them are engineering and 41 Postgraduate programs: 10 Doctorates and 31 Masters. The SUNEO covers a total of 516 hectares
Academic Year
The academic year consists of two semestrial periods: October to February, and March to July
Admission Requirements
1. High school diploma, in México called Bachillerato, or Preparatoria taught at the university campus facilities.
2. Selection test.
3. Pre-universitary course of seven weeks during August-September.
4. Admission test.
Language(s)
Spanish
Accrediting Agency
The Comités Interinstitucionales para la Evaluación de la Educación Superior A.C. (CIEES ) and the Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología (CONACyT)
Student Body
co-ed
Officers
Head : Modesto Seara Vázquez
Job title:
Rector
Senior Administrative Officer : Rafael Martínez Martínez Martínez Martínez
Job title:
Vice-Rector for Academic Affairs
International Relations Officer : María de los Ángeles Peralta Arias
Job title:
Vice-Chancellor of International Relations and Resources
Divisions
Centre : Center for Strategic Business Studies
Fields of study:
Administration, Business Administration, Business and Commerce, Management, Marketing, Small Business
Centre : Language Center
Fields of study:
Chinese, English, German, Native Language
More details:
All university campus have their own language center.
The Mixtec language is taught at UTM. It is native to the Mixtec region of Oaxaca state.
Department/Division : Division of Postgraduate Studies
Fields of study:
Administration, Analytical Chemistry, Applied Mathematics, Applied Physics, Artificial Intelligence, Biochemistry, Biotechnology, Fashion Design, Furniture Design, Nanotechnology, Optics, Organic Chemistry, Robotics, Small Business
Institute : Computer Science Institute
Fields of study:
Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Information Sciences
Institute : Institute of Agribusiness
Fields of study:
Agricultural Engineering, Bioengineering, Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Food Science, Food Technology, Laboratory Techniques
Institute : Institute of Design
Fields of study:
Building Technologies, Civil Engineering, Engineering Drawing and Design, Graphic Arts, Metal Techniques, Paper Technology, Textile Technology, Wood Technology
Institute : Institute of Electronics and Mechatronics
Fields of study:
Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Maintenance, Electronic Engineering, Electronics and Automation, Energy Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Mechanical Equipment and Maintenance
Institute : Institute of Hydrology
Fields of study:
Agronomy, Forest Management, Harvest Technology, Irrigation, Soil Conservation, Soil Management, Vegetable Production, Water Management, Water Science
Institute : Institute of Industrial Engineering and Automotive Mechanics
Fields of study:
Automotive Engineering, Industrial Engineering
More details:
Industrial Engineering and Automotive Engineering, Improvement and optimization of industrial processes, Applied statistics in industry, Management and production systems, Solar energy and biomass, Consulting and project
Institute : Institute of Physics and Mathematics
Fields of study:
Applied Mathematics, Applied Physics, Mathematical Physics, Mathematics, Nanotechnology, Operations Research, Optics, Physical Engineering, Physics, Solid State Physics, Statistics, Thermal Engineering, Thermal Physics
Institute : Institute of Social Sciences and Humanities
Fields of study:
Advertising and Publicity, Banking, Ethics, Human Resources, Leadership, Logic, Public Administration, Small Business, Social Sciences, Taxation
Institute : Mining Institute
Fields of study:
Metal Techniques, Metallurgical Engineering, Mining Engineering
Degrees
Licenciatura
Fields of study:
Applied Mathematics, Applied Physics, Automotive Engineering, Business and Commerce, Civil Engineering, Computer Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Engineering Drawing and Design, Food Science, Indigenous Studies, Industrial Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Native American Studies
Maestría
Fields of study:
Business Administration, Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Electronic Engineering, Fashion Design, Food Science, Furniture Design, Materials Engineering, Mathematics, Robotics, Software Engineering, Systems Analysis
Doctorado
Fields of study:
Computer Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Mathematics, Robotics
Note
Licenciatura: Automotive Mechanical Engineering. Food Engineering. Computer Sciences Engineering. Design Engineering. Electronic Engineering. Mechatronics Engineering. Industrial Engineering. Applied Physics Engineering. Civil Engineering. Business Science. Applied Mathematics. Mexican Studies (Distance education system) .
Academic Periodicals
Periodicals
Revista Temas de Ciencia y Tecnología (Temas de Ciencia y Tecnología magazine)
Student & Staff Numbers
Staff
Statistics Year:
2020-2021
Full Time Male:
141
Full Time Female:
68
Full Time Total:
209
Staff with Doctorate
Full Time Male:
71
Full Time Female:
29
Full Time Total:
100
Students
Statistics Year:
2020-2021
Male:
1305
Female:
742
Total:
2047
0
Distance:
16
Updated on 31-03-2021
International Association of Universities (IAU)