Source URL: https://www.whed.net/detail_institution.php?KDo2MF0sQyxVLjNgYApgCg==
Permanent URL: https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-023590

Walbrook Institute London
IAU-023590
https://www.whed.net/institutions/IAU-023590
United Kingdom
General Information
Officers
Divisions
Degrees
Academic Periodicals
Student & Staff Numbers
General Information
Address
Street:
8th Floor
Peninsular House
36 Monument Street
City:
London
Post Code:
EC3R 8LJ
WWW:
https://www.walbrook.ac.uk
Institution Funding
Private
History
Education at Walbrook is a flexible, personalised experience. Your learning journey should adapt to you – your pace, your priorities, your lifestyle. Which is why our courses and learning tools put you in control.
At Walbrook, our globally recognised degrees are designed with an emphasis on practical skills and innovative thought leadership to prepare you for the future workplace. Our courses are designed by industry experts in business, banking, finance and technology. And with our innovative learning solutions to suit all lifestyles, we’ve worked hard to make their expertise accessible to all.
Throughout our long history, we’ve helped our students build successful careers in business, management and technology. If you’ve ever dreamed of taking the next step towards progress, we’ve got the experience and expertise to get you there.
Admission Requirements
MBA:
Option 1: A 2:2 honours degree (or equivalent) from a recognised institution plus relevant professional experience (typically 2+ years).
If you have less than 2 years’ experience, you’re still encouraged to apply. We’ll review your academic and professional background on a case-by-case basis.
Option 2: A minimum of 2 years of relevant professional experience.
If English isn't your first language, you’ll be asked to provide proof of your English language proficiency in one of the following forms. Alternatively, you may be accepted if you have previously studied in English at an appropriate level and attended a recognised institution.
IELTS: Evidence of a score of IELTS Level 6.5 or above with no element below 6.0.
TOEFL iBT®: Evidence of a score of 88 overall (with 18 in reading, 19 in listening, 19 in speaking and 23 in writing).
Trinity College London Integrated Skills in English (ISE): Evidence of a score of ISE II with distinction in each skill (please note that Trinity College ISE academic results are only valid for two years)
Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency or Cambridge Certificate of Advanced English: Evidence of a score of 176 overall, with 169 in each component.
MBA Psychology
Option 1: A UK honours degree at 2:2 or above (or equivalent international qualification) in a subject other than psychology.
Because this programme is designed to provide a pathway into psychology, you won’t be eligible if your undergraduate degree is already accredited by the British Psychological Society (BPS). However, if you’ve studied some psychology previously – or hold a non-accredited psychology degree – you can still apply. Our team will review your academic background to confirm your eligibility.
Option 2: A non-honours degree with clear evidence of independent empirical research experience, such as a dissertation or thesis.
If English isn't your first language, you’ll be asked to provide proof of your English language proficiency in one of the following forms, or an equivilant qualification. Alternatively, you may be accepted if you have previously studied in English at an appropriate level and attended a recognised institution.
IELTS: Evidence of a score of IELTS Level 6.0 or above with no element below 5.5.
TOEFL iBT® :Evidence of a score of 79 overall (with 18 in reading, 17 in listening, 20 in speaking and 21 in writing).
Trinity College London Integrated Skills in English (ISE): Evidence of a score of ISE II with distinction in each skill.
Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency or Cambridge Certificate of Advanced English: Evidence of a score of 170 overall, with 160 in each component.
On campus MSc
To apply for this master's degree, you’ll need:
A 2:2 honours degree (or equivalent) from a recognised institution.
Additionally, we may consider applicants with a non-degree qualification that is deemed by Walbrook Institute London to be of an appropriate standard for postgraduate study.
Applicants may be subject to additional selection criteria.
If English isn't your first language, you’ll be asked to provide proof of your English language proficiency in one of the following forms. Alternatively, you may be accepted if you have previously studied in English at an appropriate level and attended a recognised institution.
IELTS: Evidence of a score of IELTS Level 6.0 or above with no element below 5.5.
TOEFL iBT®: Evidence of a score of 79 overall (with 18 in reading, 17 in listening, 20 in speaking and 21 in writing).
Trinity College London Integrated Skills in English (ISE): Evidence of a score of ISE II with distinction in each skill.
Cambridge Certificate of Proficiency or Cambridge Certificate of Advanced English: Evidence of a score of 170 overall, with 160 in each component.
Language(s)
English
Accrediting Agency
The Office for Students
Student Body
co-ed
Officers
Head : Steve Hill
Job title:
Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer
Senior Administrative Officer : Freddie McCann
Job title:
HE Reputation and Partnership Manager
Divisions
Course/Programme : Banking and Finance
Fields of study:
Accountancy, Artificial Intelligence, Banking, Business Administration, Business and Commerce, Business Computing, Business Education, Computer Science, Data Processing, Economic and Finance Policy, Economics, Finance, Information Sciences, Management, Mathematics and Computer Science
Degrees
Bachelor's Honours Degree
Fields of study:
Accountancy, Artificial Intelligence, Banking, Business Administration, Business and Commerce, Business Computing, Computer Science, Data Processing, Economic and Finance Policy, Economics, Finance, Information Sciences, Mathematics and Computer Science
Master's Degree
Fields of study:
Accountancy, Artificial Intelligence, Banking, Business Administration, Business and Commerce, Business Computing, Computer Science, Data Processing, Economic and Finance Policy, Economics, Finance, International Business, Mathematics and Computer Science
Note
Also offers professional qualifications
Updated on 30-07-2025
International Association of Universities (IAU)